Software Engineering
The concept first appeared at a NATO conference in Germany in 1968 to handle a software crisis.

The causes of the software crisis were linked to the overall complexity of hardware
and the software development process.
The crisis manifested itself in several ways:

- Projects running over budget
- Projects running over time
- Software was very inefficient
- Software was of low quality
- Software often did not meet requirements
- Projects were unmanageable and code was difficult to maintain

Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_crisis


Software Activities (or Processes) vs Software Development Models
Activities: Required to develop a software system.
Activities include analysis, design, implementation, verification and validation (testing), and maintenance.

Software Development Model:
An abstract representation of a process.
It presents a description of a process from some particular perspective.

Basic development models are:

- Waterfall
- Incremental
- Reuse-oriented software development
Source: Sommerville, Software Engineering, 10th ed., Chapter 2

Definition of Software Engineering
Software engineering is concerned with theories, methods, and tools for professional software development.


Comments in Python:
# : for one-line comments

''' : for multi-line comments


Running main() in Python:

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
main() is executed only if the file containing main() is run directly, not when imported.

__name__ is an attribute automatically set to "__main__" when the file is executed as a script.


Script vs Module:
- Script: A directly executable piece of code (run by itself).
- Module: A library, imported by another piece of code.

cProfile:

An optimization tool used to diagnose what makes a program slow.

The output includes total running time, the time of each separate function, and how many times each function is executed.

-m flag:

Allows running a module, like cProfile, as a script.

range():

Returns an object which produces elements on demand.

Three ways to execute Hello.py:

Type in the shell: python Hello.py

Give executable permission and type: ./Hello.py

Run the Python interpreter and type: import Hello

Shebang line (#!):

Example: #!/usr/bin/env python3

Tells the operating system to run the script with Python.

In Unix-like OSes, the loader reads this line to determine which interpreter to use.

Collatz Conjecture
Process:

Take a positive integer.

If it is even, divide it by 2.

If it is odd, multiply by 3 and add 1.

Repeat until reaching 1.

Example sequence starting from 5:
5 → 16 → 8 → 4 → 2 → 1

Cycle length of 5: 6 steps

Cycle length of 10: 7 steps

Assertions
Assertions are valuable computational comments and are invaluable for future code maintainers.

When an assertion fails, it reports:

The filename

The function name

The line number

The expression where the failure occurred

Important points about assertions:

Executing Python with -O turns off all assertions.

Assertions are NOT appropriate for testing code (use unittest instead).

Assertions are NOT appropriate for handling user errors (use exceptions instead).

Assertions are appropriate for detecting programmer errors.

When an assertion fails, the program stops.
When testing a program, you do not want it to stop — you need to complete all tests.
Therefore, unit testing is the correct method.